[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: So here we
are next to a rainy river,
our natural environment
for working on code.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, and this
one's going to be on DevTools,
so it's DevTools,
rain, and boats.
ADDY OSMANI: Nothing synthetic
about this in the slightest.
All right, so
today we're talking
about responsive toolbar.
Now for a while
in DevTools, we've
had device mode, which has been
useful for building responsive
sites.
This is sort of an
evolution of that tooling.
So some of the new
things we've added
are support for this
little toolbar that
lets you toggle between
different mobile sizes
like medium, large,
tablet, desktop.
But we've also improved
at device emulation.
So if we switch over to
Nexus 5X for example,
you now get a little
bit of device artwork
from Android showing on
the top and the bottom.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah,
and then they've
added an extra little dropdown
where you can then say,
do you want portrait with
a navigation bar, which
is like Chrome's URL bar.
But you can also do portrait
and landscape with keyboard
as well, which is kind
of nice, especially
if you're doing form input,
just to see how it renders.
Nice little step up as well.
ADDY OSMANI: That's
kind of cool.
You also have a
dropdown for being
able to say how
much of the viewport
you want to occupy for
your actual device preview.
And we've got this little
menu with a few extra options
in here.
So one of the things that you
might have tried out before
is the show media queries
option, super useful.
It basically parses out the
media queries in your page,
and you can just see
what your page looks
like at different media
query breakpoints.
MATT GAUNT: I already
have some beef with this,
because if you try and use it
as is after you've selected
a device, it does nothing.
But if you go to
the responsive mode
and drop down and then click
on it, then it starts working.
ADDY OSMANI: What are
you talking about Matt,
it's all perfect.
It's all perfect.
MATT GAUNT: No,
it needs an issue.
ADDY OSMANI: OK, you
file a bug on that.
Other things that
we include in here
include show device pixel ratio.
So you can switch up your
device pixel ratio settings.
Another thing that I usually
have on is network throttling.
So if you're building to
be resilient against really
flaky network conditions or
Li-Fi or anything like that,
network throttling can
be useful to toggle on.
Usually you can have on
a good 3G or 2G setting.
And that just means that when
you're loading up your page,
we're going to throttle
that connection
and it will load up a little
bit more slowly than it normally
would.
MATT GAUNT: And
it's kind of nice
just having that there,
because otherwise you
bury it in the
network thing, it's
way too easy to leave it
on some random setting,
start looking at the elements,
fixing other problems.
It's nice just having
it constantly there
in the responsive mode.
ADDY OSMANI: You
could also-- let's
say you're building an app, like
a progressive web application,
and you've got service
worker support.
You can also switch on offline
to try out your service
where you can just make sure
it's working well offline.
MATT GAUNT: It would be great
if it was just like one button,
like disable antenna.
Just an airplane icon,
that's what you need.
Done.
ADDY OSMANI: Folks, we're
asking about ruler support.
So we've got a Show
Rulers option there.
Wasn't there before,
it's now back.
You can check that out
if you like rulers.
Some of the newer stuff
that we've been playing with
are the ability to trigger
add to home screen.
So let's say you want to
emulate your web application,
manifest experience.
You can click Trigger
Add to Home Screen.
It will bring up this
message at the very top
that says add this site to
your shelf to use at any time.
You can click Add
and it will bring up
a little prompt
that says, OK, well,
what do you want to customize
the name of this thing to?
And the idea behind
this is that it's
supposed to just emulate the
add to home screen experience
you get on Android.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, and
it was kind of annoying
because before you'd have
to do it on your phone.
You'd need something to
download the manifest file.
And normally the
reason you'd want
to do that is because if there's
a problem in your manifest file
and Chrome wasn't happy,
it wouldn't pass it.
And it's just tricky to debug.
So having this hard
way of just saying
go and download it and
pass it is insanely helpful
when you just do it.
ADDY OSMANI: As a
reminder, we also
have another little
panel called Sensors
which lets you go and
emulate different sensors.
So you can emulate
geolocation coordinates,
device orientation.
And you can decide
whether or not
you want to emulate touch
based on your device
or whether you want to do
force touch, force enabled.
That's about it for
the responsive toolbar
and the new device mode.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]